MBI rework (#4386)
centreon/centreon-documentation: versioned_docs/version-25.10/mbi-reworked/generating-reports.md

---
id: generating-reports
title: Generating reports
---

> La première chose que fait la procédure est de me dire ce qu’est un job. On devrait d’abord introduire le concept en expliquant que c’est bien lié à mbi, sinon j’ai l’impression que la page sur laquelle je suis n’est pas forcément liée à mbi.

Author: ```suggestion
MBI is a Centreon extension that has some terms you may not have heard elsewhere in our documentation. We strongly suggest you read the [concepts page](mbi-concepts.md) before following MBI-related procedures.
```

# Jobs

> Report templates comme le nouveau terme

Author: ```suggestion
"Report templates" as the new term 
```

> Les informations ici seraient plus pertinentes données au fur et à mesure qu’elles deviennent nécessaires.

Author: ```suggestion
```

Reporting > MBI > jobs > add
Configuration

> Je ne vois pas à quoi sert la ligne “state”

Author: ```suggestion
specify the use of the “state” field
```

Report parameters

> Page très générale par nécessité mais peu claire

Author: ```suggestion
page is vague out of necessity because its contents depend on the report template/design but should still be clear on its purpose
```

Report publication
Aucune info sur comment ajouter des publication rules
Spécifier que le job détermine la fréquence des rapports, pas les publication rules. Actuellement, La partie "envoi de reports MBI par mail" est à revoir, notamment sur l'aspect fréquence d'envoi.
La fréquence d'envoi est basée sur la fréquence de génération du rapport (daily, weekly ou monthly). Le rapport est automatiquement envoyé à chaque fois qu’il est généré (à vérifier).
Tuning  
On me dit dans la doc que je peux modifier le thème par défaut sur un autre écran. Ça m’a donné l’impression que je pouvais créer ma propre palette de couleurs pour les rapports alors que c’est juste pour choisir un des thèmes existants comme celui à utiliser par défaut.

> Aucune idée de ce que sont les jobs groups. On penserait que ce sont des ensembles de jobs comme pour les host groups ou contact groups mais je dois les ajouter dans un job pour qu’il soit valide

Author: ```suggestion
Need to clarify what job groups are, the name can misdirect users: one would expect them to be a group of jobs similar to host groups or contact groups but they are actually more similar to ACLs, determining who can access each report
```

> Report publication
> Aucune info sur comment ajouter des publication rules
> Spécifier que le job détermine la fréquence des rapports, pas les publication rules. Actuellement, La partie "envoi de reports MBI par mail" est à revoir, notamment sur l'aspect fréquence d'envoi.
> La fréquence d'envoi est basée sur la fréquence de génération du rapport (daily, weekly ou monthly). Le rapport est automatiquement envoyé à chaque fois qu’il est généré (à vérifier).
> Tuning  
> On me dit dans la doc que je peux modifier le thème par défaut sur un autre écran. Ça m’a donné l’impression que je pouvais créer ma propre palette de couleurs pour les rapports alors que c’est juste pour choisir un des thèmes existants comme celui à utiliser par défaut.
> 
> Aucune idée de ce que sont les jobs groups. On penserait que ce sont des ensembles de jobs comme pour les host groups ou contact groups mais je dois les ajouter dans un job pour qu’il soit valide

Author: ```suggestion
Report publication
properly explain how to add publication rules
Specify jobs determine the frequency of the reports, not the publication rules and review the "send MBI reports by email" part, specifically the frequency of the emails sent. That frequency is the same as the frequency of report generation specified in the job (daily, weekly or monthly), the report is automtically sent each time it is generated (double check this last point).

Tuning
Choosing a default theme does not mean one creates their own color palette for their reports. It is actually only to allow the user to choose one of our existing themes as the default theme.

Need to clarify what job groups are, the name can misdirect users: one would expect them to be a group of jobs similar to host groups or contact groups but they are actually more similar to ACLs, determining who can access each report
```

The following procedure requires you to have [prepared your data](preparing-data.md) as per the MBI requirements.

A job is a scheduled report pending its time to be generated. This also applies to reports that are to be generated immediately. 
Jobs are created by clicking the **Add** button in the **Reporting  >  Monitoring Business Intelligence  >  Jobs** page.

## Step 1: Configuration tab

### Job configuration

Give a name to the new job, the name given to the job will also be given to the report once generated.

Select a job design from the drop-down menu. The design determines the overall appearance of the report and how its information is presented. 

Consult our [available reports catalog](available-reports.md) to find the appropriate report design. 

You can change the language of the report between French or English. The spinning arrows icon next to the language field is an obsolete feature and will have no impact on the language of the report.
The Output formats determine in what formats you will be able to download the generated report.

> [Job groups](concepts.md#job-groups) determine who can access each report, only the job gorups you have access to will be listed here.

Author: ```suggestion
[Job groups](concepts.md#job-groups) determine who can access each report, only the job groups you have access to will be listed here.
```

### Scheduling parameters

> Select wether you want the job to be executed immediately or schedule it for later. For immediate jobs, you must specify the reporting period that the report should be about. 

Author: ```suggestion
Select wether you want the job to be executed immediately or schedule it for later. For immediate jobs, you must specify the reporting period that the report will include. 
```

In the case of a scheduled job, it depends on whether it is a regular job or a one shot:

- Regular jobs are executed at the defined interval and will use its own interval as the reporting period. This means daily jobs will contain the data of the previous day, weekly reports will contain the data of the previous week, etc.

- One shot jobs will execute once at the scheduled time. Like for an immediate job, you will need to specify the period the report should take into account.

## Step 2: Report parameters tab

This tab is for selecting the resources which should be taken into account for the generation of the report.

> The fields of the tab change according to the report design selected in the previous tab. However note that all fields should be filled and fields that require you to add categories from left to right should have at least one category in the right side each.

Author: ```suggestion
The fields of the tab change according to the report design selected in the previous tab. However note that all fields should be filled. 
Fields that require you to add categories from left to right should have at least one category in the right side each.
```
